# IoT-Based-Indoor-Environmental-Monitoring-System
This project presents the design and implementation details of an IoT-based indoor environmental monitoring system which employs lowcost devices such as Arduino Uno, Raspberry Pi, ESP8266 WiFi shield, and electronic sensors (DHT- 11 & MQ-2) for the real-time monitoring of parameters such as temperature, humidity and gas content. Sensed environmental data is stored in the AWS MySQL database. The sensor node data stored in the MySQL database of the AWS RDS is made available to external client applications such as the mobile app and web browser using REST APIs. In the prototype design, the REST APIs have been implemented using nodejs. The same APIs would be called from web application or from a mobile app.

The "Web Application” consists of two parts: (i) Server side and (ii) Client side. The server side is programmed using Nodejs and it provides the APIs for the client to access. The Nodejs component is deployed using AWS Beanstalk service. The client part is implemented using Angular. The angular front end component is deployed on AWS S3 bucket. The S3 bucket is made accessible by the AWS CloudFront service which is utilized to create a URL for the web application. The mobile app utilizing the same APIs facilitates online monitoring of indoor environmental parameters from any location. Further, the developed system prototype facilitates the centralized management of customers and their sensor nodes by the system administrator.

The Project Report details the step by step design implementation procedures of the Indoor Environmental Monitoring System
